Sources: Federal agents raid powerful Chicago Ald. Ed Burke's City Hall office

Federal agents raided the City Hall office of powerful Chicago Ald. Ed Burke on Thursday morning, sources familiar with the development confirmed.

Agents arrived at the office early Thursday morning, told employees to leave and papered over the glass windows at the office’s entrance to conceal the investigation going on inside, a source confirmed. A woman who left the office and did not identify herself said FBI agents were inside.

Burke’s office did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

 
Alderman Ed Burke files his petitions at the Chicago Board of Elections on Nov. 19, 2018. (Antonio Perez/Chicago Tribune)
Burke’s ward office on the Southwest Side also had the same brown paper taped over its front door with three signs that read, “Office closed.” An officer sitting in a squad car parked behind Burke’s ward office said a search warrant was being executed inside but offered no further details.


A law enforcement source told the Chicago Tribune that FBI agents raided Burke’s City Hall office and that the search was ongoing.

A law enforcement source told the Chicago Tribune that FBI agents raided Burke’s City Hall office and that the search was ongoing. No arrests were made or are imminent, said the source, who had no details on the nature of the investigation.

Burke is the longtime chairman of the City Council’s Finance Committee, where he controls much of the legislative purse strings at City Hall. He has held office since 1969 and is running for re-election to a record 14th term.

Ald. Howard Brookins, who has offices next to Burke’s at City Hall, said he didn’t know what was going on behind the brown paper covering Burke’s office doors. But he questioned whether federal agents would conduct raids of an official set to stand for re-election in February.

“I listen to the news and read the papers, and I thought they didn’t do anything that close to an election, so it’s shocking to me as to how you, or why something like this would happen some 90 days before an election,” Brookins told a scrum of reporters.

Burke’s wife, Anne Burke, just won retention to another term on the Illinois Supreme Court. She was sworn-in during a private ceremony Thursday morning in Chicago.

Burke, who is celebrating his 50th year on the council, holds the record for Chicago’s longest-serving alderman.

Burke won election as Democratic committeeman for the 14th Ward in July 1968 after his father, Ald. Joseph P. Burke, died of lung cancer while in office. The younger Burke has held that post ever since, rising from a young ward heeler to long-serving chairman of the powerful City Council Finance Committee, where he wields great influence over Chicago’s purse strings.

That includes running the workers’ compensation program for the city’s workforce, excluding sworn police and fire personnel injured in the line of duty.